# ZeroExodus
ZeroExodus is a light-weight tool for modifying Exodus II mesh files. 
It can be used to set any "almost-zero" coordinates to true zero values 
for a given tolerance. 

## Copyright / License
Copyright 2022 Robert S. Browning IV

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

[apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Program Description
ZeroExodus sets nearly-zero coordinates in an Exodus II mesh file to zero
for a given tolerance and precision. Currently, the precision and 
tolerance are hard-coded to the standard values used by common meshing
software. 

## Program Compilation
The simpliciity of this program is such that using a makefile would be
overkill. Simply place the ZeroExodus directory in a location you prefer
and then use your preferred Fortran compiler to compile the main.f08
file, which is found in the src directory. For example, using gfortran
the compile command would be:

    gfortran main.f08 -o ZeroExodus

The executable can then be placed in a /bin directory in the master 
directory if desired.

## Program Usage
The anticipated usage of this program will be in a computational 
envitonment. Thus, it is expected that users will have the ability to 
call this program from a terminal in a Linux-like fashion; if you're 
running Windows this can be accomplished via the Windows Subsystem for
Linux (WSL). Thus, if you compiled the executable as ZeroExodus, then
to convert an ASCII Exodus mesh file, simply type:

    ZeroExodus ascii.exotxt

This will generate an output file named:  ascii_zeroexo.exotxt

Alternatively, you can provide your desired output file name as an
additional command line argument:

    ZeroExodus ascii.exotxt user_defined_output_name.exotxt

The .exotxt extension is required to help prevent unintentional application
of ZeroExodus to non-Exodus files. It also serves as a reminder that this
program requires ASCII input.

ZeroExodus expects that the ASCII files were generated by the exotxt tool
provided in the SEACAS tool suite. SEACAS is not part of this program and
no statement of suitability, liability, warranty, etc. is expressed or 
implied regarding SEACAS. The interested reader should consult the 
following URL for more information about SEACAS:

[github.com/sandialabs/seacas](https://github.com/sandialabs/seacas)
